0
Student Group Category Breakdown
FUNDING CATEGORIES
There are four creatively named funding categories for student groups at Brown: Category 1, Category 2, and Category 3.
All new groups are designated as Category 1 for their first year in operation, receiving baseline funding as dictated by UFB. In their second semester of operation, Category 1 groups become eligible to apply for Category 2 status. If approved, they receive a representative during UFB meetings and the ability to apply for greater funding than the baseline amount. The classification of Category 3 groups is not under the purview of the UCS Student Activities Committee — see the
UFB Policy Handbook
for details about this category and how to recateogrize from Category 2 to Category 3.
Also check out the pages on
starting a new group
or
recategorizing your existing group
CATEGORY 1 (CAT 1)
Privileges:
Reserve spaces, submit Morning Mail, access to BearSync, and use of Brown University name
Funding:
Up to $300 per semester in baseline funding; access to SAO account but not eligible for UFB funding
Member requirement:
10 undergraduate students
CATEGORY 2 (CAT 2)
Privileges:
Same as Cat 1
Funding:
Same as Cat 1 but may request additional supplemental UFB funding throughout the academic year with the understanding that Category 3 clubs might be prioritized based the discretionary assessment of their immediate needs and contributions to campus life (see:
brownufb.org
Member requirement:
15 undergraduate students
Distribution of Funding Categories at Brown
ACTIVITY CATEGORIES
Beyond funding categories, student groups at Brown are also separated by UCS and UFB into categories based on the type of activities student groups engage in. These categories are:
Quite self-explanatory — musical groups on campus that perform without instrumental accompaniment.
There are currently 17 A Capella clubs on campus.
This category applies to any club that serves to create a sense of community among those with similar majors, graduate school aspirations, broad or niche interests within potential career fields, research interests, socioeconomic backgrounds, or any combination or intersection of the above.
There are currently 81 Academic & Professional clubs on campus.
A category for clubs dedicated to any form or application of visual art and literature (not pertaining to any cultural or ethnic identity). These clubs can be casual, professional, or a mix of both.
There are currently 10 Arts clubs on campus.
This category includes clubs that manage special campus-wide events like Spring Weekend, as well as clubs that serve as student liaisons with University-run resources and identity groups like the Resumed Undergraduate Student Association.
There are currently 8 Campus Services & Events clubs on campus.
Clubs dedicated to making you laugh 1-2 times per semester.
There are currently 4 Comedy & Improv groups on campus.
Affinity groups and community centers for students of particular cultures, races, or national identities. These clubs are sometimes blanket organizations that interact with other identity groups under different categories. Some clubs are dedicated to certain cultural activities that don't fall under any other category.
There are currently 67 Cultural & Ethnic groups on campus.
Performance groups that put on regular shows for the student body and/or for a particular cultural or ethnic group from which the type of performance originates.
There are currently 22 Dance & Acrobatics groups on campus.
Clubs dedicated to creating community for those of certain sexualities or gender identities. The category also includes some intersections between such identities and other categories.
There are currently 2 Gender & Sexuality groups on campus.
An assortment of clubs dedicated to music composition, production, appreciation, and performance. Some clubs in this category belong to certain cultural and ethnic identities.
There are currently 11 Music, Rhythm, & Song groups on campus.
Any type of club whose primary purpose revolves around writing and printing a regular publication on any topic (i.e. not merely a club with a publication attached).
There are currently 34 News & Publication groups on campus.
Political orientation, political action, social justice, and chapters of national political organizations.
There are currently 9 Political student groups on campus.
Outlets for students to explore and produce visual-auditory and and purely auditory media.
There are 3 Radio & Film student groups on campus.
Clubs dedicated to less serious, more fun community interests such as appreciation of pop culture, different food types, board games, hobbies, and more.
There are currently 40 Recreational & Appreciation student groups on campus.
Spaces dedicated to communities for religious identities, religious members of other specific identity groups, religious outreach organizations, and the Church of Darkness.
There are currently 16 Religious and Spiritual Life student groups on campus.
Student groups with the primary mission of doing volunteer work for communities who need it. These clubs are often chapters of larger national organizations, but can also exist just for students at Brown or the larger Providence community.
There are currently 47 Service student groups on campus.
Student groups dedicated to changing aspects of society on the international level down to Brown itself though social action and organization.
There are currently 30 Social Action student groups at Brown.
UCS, UFB, and CCB.
You cannot create a new Category 1 club under this banner, but in theory, you could make your club the fourth branch of student government if 2/3rds of student voters pass a referendum that calls for it in Spring.
Any student organization dedicated to performing arts at their production.
There are currently 6 Theater & Drama groups.
Distribution of Activity Categories at Brown
To see all clubs under a particular activity category, go to
the list of UCS-recognized clubs
and apply the appropriate filter on the left of the page. Some clubs may appear to fit in multiple categories or fit better in a category another category. This is because the category assigned to each club is usually what that club’s founders chose for it. However, UFB ultimately controls how groups are categorized and can move clubs from one activity category to another however the board sees fit.