This article is written by a student writer from the Her Campus at Brown chapter and does not reflect the views of Her Campus.
It’s the middle of September, the Club Fair has long passed and you still don’t know what clubs there are let alone which ones you should join. You might not know
how to join a club
. If this is you, don’t worry. I was in the same position my freshman year. You might be unsure if you want to stay with the same organizations you participated in during high school or try something new. Lucky for you college is the perfect opportunity to explore anything and everything that calls to you. There are so many clubs and organizations at Brown that it’s easy to feel overwhelmed. Don’t feel pressured to have it all figured out right away. Take some time to attend a few meetings and talk with members and sooner or later you’ll find an organization that feels right. Remember that everyone’s experience and journey is different.
The one thing I can say with confidence that is true for everyone is that
there is a place for you
. Joining clubs/organizations is a valuable experience that goes beyond just your resume. It gives you the chance to find friends with similar interests and build meaningful connections that could last a lifetime. Clubs give you a safe space to decompress after a hard day. They give you the opportunity to pursue your passions and explore new experiences. They give you a sense of community when college feels lonely and far from home. When you find a club that fulfills you, you will find yourself growing and learning and becoming the best version of yourself, with an undeniable sense of capability and confidence.
The key is to find a balance that works for you
. With all of my heart and wisdom I beg you not to overload your schedule with clubs and E-board positions. Managing your classes at Brown is hard enough as it is.
For me, the golden number for extracurricular organizations is three: one for professional growth, one for passion, and one just for fun.
Organizations for Professional Growth*
Connections, connections, connections! You’re at Brown so please take advantage of the network at your feet. Joining an organization that focuses on professional growth is one of the smartest decisions you can make at college. You will be given an abundance of resources to strengthen and develop career skills and gain hands-on experience that you can’t often get in the classroom. Additionally, you will have the chance to connect with other students, faculty, and industry professionals that can provide you with guidance and mentorship in your professional journey.
Here are some great orgs to consider joining for professional growth.
Scholars of Finance, Bruno Finance Society
Women in Business
Brown Undergraduate Pre-Law Society, Women’s Pre-Law Society, Black Pre-Law Association, Brown Undergraduate Law Review
Brown Pre-Med Society
Brown Consulting Club
Girls Who Code
Model United Nations
Brown Lecture Board
Organizations for Passion*
College is the time to follow your passions and explore what your community has to offer you. Joining a club that lets you pursue what you’re passionate about is a cheat code for feeling fulfilled with your college experience. It allows you to immerse yourself in something that motivates you. Being surrounded by peers with a shared passion will push you to grow intellectually and as a person. If it calls to you, try it. If you can think it, Brown probably has it.
Here are a few passion-focused organizations:
The Brown Daily Herald, Brown Political Review
Student Affinity Groups: Black Student Union, Korean American Students Association, etc.
Brown Votes
Ivy Film Festival
Fashion @ Brown
No Empty Seats
Women’s Health Advocacy Group (WHAG), Sexual Health Advocacy through Peer Education (SHAPE)
Organizations Just for Fun!
Lastly, I recommend joining a club simply because you love it. Not every extracurricular activity has to be about preparing for your future/career, you can do something for personal enjoyment. Take the time to unwind, meet new people, and have fun!
Here are some clubs I think would be loads of fun:
Greek organizations
Brown Cooking Club
Acapella groups: Chattertocks, Shades of Brown, etc.
Chess Club
Club Sports
Brown Noser
Theatre Collective
*These lists are not exhaustive. Please visit Brown’s Undergraduate Student Activities website for a list of all active organizations:
https://studentactivities.brown.edu/student-groups/undergraduate-student-groups
activities
career
clubs
college
life
organizations
personal growth
resume
Cassandra Coleman
Brown '26
Cassandra is a junior at Brown University studying Political Science and Economics. She belongs to Kappa Delta Sorority and is a member of Ivy Film Festival's Business and DEI teams. In her free time Cassandra enjoys getting a sweet treat with friends, reading thriller novels, and watching the Kardashians.